# Mailing-System-Using-Verbal-Communication
In this Android Application, we will be developing a voice-based email system that will aid visually impaired people who are naïve to computer systems to use email facilities in a hassle-free manner. The users of this system would not need to have any basic information regarding keyboard shortcuts or where the keys are located. All functions are based on simple voice commands making it very easy for any type of user to use this system. Also, the user need not worry about remembering which mouse click operation needs to be performed to avail of a given service as the system itself will be promoting them as to which click will provide them with what operations.
<br>
<br>
Develop an Android application using Android Studio, integrate it with the Gmail API, and finally implement the TF-IDF algorithm of the NLP for the file attachment part. For the text-to-speech conversion and vice versa, I had to integrate the gTTs module of Google into the application as well. Since I had to integrate various API I decided to divide the UI of the application into fragments which makes the model integration easier as well. This means that each page of the application had its own life cycle but was connected with the other pages in the application. 
<br>
<br>
As soon as the user enters the application the app asks for permissions and asks for the authorization of the email-id and password of the user. Once the email-id is authorized it is stored in a variable. The inbox emails of the user are stored in a JSON file. And the messages are retrieved from the JSON file, To store the email and password we used the shared preferences. Created an async task for sending mail using Gmail OAuth. Used Gmail’s official method to send the email with OAuth. The Gmail is sent using the encoder. Mimepart and Multipart were used for retrieving the file and attaching the same. Data handler to mention the file name. Apart from this, for the file attachment we used the TF-IDF algorithm. The application asks the user if the user wants to attach the file, if yes then the app asks for the file name, generates a summary of the mentioned file, and reads it out to the user, to confirm if the correct file has been chosen and if the user wants to send the mail with the attached file.
<br>
<br>
<b>Result: </b><br>
The result of this application was that we were able to build the whole application well within the deadline resulting in us publishing a paper on the same, as well as hosting this application for a very short period on Heroku.
